Hello everyone and welcome back in this video.
I want to quickly show you how you can get your environment set up so that you can code along inside
of this course.
If you are on a Windows computer now in the windows computer there's a couple different terminal options
you have.
The main one that I think is very useful is the one that comes integrated with Visual Studio code.
The benefit of this as well is that because I use Visual Studio code as my editor if you're unfamiliar
with EDS you can easily use Visual Studio code and you'll be able to follow everything that I'm doing
with my editor because we both would end up using the exact same editor so in order to use Visual Studio
code I'm going to paste for you a link inside of your resources that you can use to get the dollar.
So simply hit download for windows and wait for the download to complete once your visual studio code
finishes downloading.
Simply go to the folder that you set it in.
So in my case it's in my downloads folder and just simply double click to install it.
Now inside of here you're gonna be asked for a license agreement.
So simply accept the agreement and then you'll have these boxes that you can check.
Now I would probably check all the ones that are unchecked.
But what this allows you to do is access Visual Studio code through different settings on your computer
so you can use it to open up your projects simply hit next and then install
once it's finished.
We can simply launch Visual Studio code and then inside a Visual Studio code.
You now have your editor.
So in order for you to actually open up the terminal that I have here simply go up to the terminal tab
and hit new terminal and this will now open up the terminal that you have by default set up inside of
your Windows computer.
If you have installed other shells you'll be able to select them from this dropdown.
But in my case I only have power shell which is the default shell that comes with the computer.
So what I'm going to do now is I am going to actually install a different one called Get Bash now with
get bash.
You are now able to access the underlying get projects and get folders that we will use throughout this
course because we want to push to get hub.
So use the link that I provided for you and simply hit Download Now this will download this the same
way that we just downloaded Visual Studio code and just save it wherever you want to.
Once it's finished downloading go to the folder where it's downloaded to and simply run it as well.
Now this will ask you if you allow it to make changes.
Now you want to hit.
Yes because this will install get bash instead of power shell which comes with much easier to understand
controls now here and I'll ask you if you wanted to allow you to install different things.
And in my case I just want to add another icon on the desktop.
So it's easy to launch
and then by default it will ask you what editor you want to use.
So usually vim is the one that most people are comfortable with or Visual Studio code which we just
downloaded.
If you want it to be the one that opens whenever you want to modify files and text files.
But we'll explore that a little later.
For now I'm just going to stick to them and hit next and then I want to run get from my command line
and then I want to also use Open SSL in order to validate my get.
You can just hit next for this and for here you can also use get bashes own minty terminal emulator.
So this one is entirely up to you.
I personally I'm going to use the get provided minty and then I'm just going to hit next again.
Experimental is up to you whether or not you want to opt in or not to these new commands.
It does not really matter.
I'm not going to opt in and I'm just gonna wait for the install to finish now once everything's installed.
Simply hit finish and then go back to your visual studio code and close it.
So we need to actually access the new terminal because we have a new shell storage to do this.
Just reopen Visual Studio code after you've closed it.
And then inside of this dropdown what we're going to do is we are gonna hit select default shell
and we are going to choose art get Bash.
Now this will switch our main terminal whenever we add a new one or whenever we open our terminal to
use our new get back shell and the way to do that is now you simply hit this plus icon which we'll see
is now bash and then you just close your old power shell by switching back to it and hitting the garbage
can.
And now you have bash setup as your main terminal.
Now if you see these colors when you switch to bash that means that you are running the minty emulator.
If you remember in those settings when we were installing get bash.
So this is actually a quality of life emulator.
It just makes different things in the terminal prettier as well as easier to understand and reason about
you can of course run other emulators if you want such a Z shell which is what I have when you watch
my course.
But in our case minty is fine for windows.
Now what we need to install next is Node node is actually what's going to allow us to run javascript
inside of our terminal.
What we have to do is we have to go to this Web site of no J.S. and simply download the installer equivalent
to whatever bit your Windows is so minus 64 I'm just going to download the 64 bit one.
Once it's finished downloading open the folder and then just run the node installer now node is what
we need in order for us to run our JavaScript as well as manage our javascript packages for all of the
applications that we'll be building so simply hit next.
Except the license and agreement install node and then hit next again and finally install.
Now node also comes with NPM which is node package manager and we want to hit yes here as well.
When it asks if it allows us to make changes to our device and no package manager is what allows us
to manage different versions of node now the versions of node all come with different features and node
is always being updated but we want to just use the latest version of node at the time of when you watch
this video.
And usually that's what this link will recommend you as well and I'll try and give you the latest LTE
version so simply wait until our node is finished installing and once it's finished simply hit finish.
Now we have to make sure that node and NPM are properly installed on our computer.
So the way we do that is we just have to close our visual studio code and reopen it again because we
need to see and load a new version of our terminal and once our terminal comes in we simply type in
no dash B and we should see some number.
So this will tell us the version of node that we currently have installed.
If we hit NPM dash maybe we'll see the version of NPM we have install now that you have NPM and node
you can actually run through this course.
The only thing is that I use yarn as my package manager instead of NPM.
Now yarn and NPM are pretty much the same thing.
The only thing was that there was a period of time where NPM was kind of buggy and what Facebook did
was they created yarn so that it was a more efficient package manager but NPM has since then caught
up.
Now you can easily Google all of the commands that you need that are the same replacements for what's
used in yarn.
If you wanted to just use NPM but if you want to use yarn I'm gonna show you how to download yarn.
So simply copy the resource that I've given you inside of your resource folder that says yarn and then
paste it into your browser.
And once you're on this page make sure your operating system is windows and your version is stable.
Then you just click download installer.
Now you'll see here that it says that we can only do this after we've installed no Jess which we just
did so with this.
Once it's finished we simply go to where we've installed it and run the installer.
We're going to accept the licence hit next.
And then finally hit and stop.
We want to allow it to make changes and we finish.
And now we need to go back to our visual studio code.
Close it again and rerun it because we need to make sure that we have the version of yarn installed
or our computer.
So what we can do inside of our terminal is just type yarn dash V.
Once it's finished loading and we should see the version that we just installed.
And with this your environment is now set up for the rest of the course.
So I'll see you in the next lesson.